# Pearson-Essay

This repo contains:

1. My How to reduce vulnerabilities in software during development essay.
2. My primary research results.
3. My Questionnaire I used for my primary research.

### Analysing research 
My secondary research consisted of researching two case studies that would help me answer the question ‘How to reduce vulnerabilities in a system during Software development?’. Within my report I spoke about the methodology of Software development and the key parts of any Software development project such as the six stages to any good project. 

For my Primary research I handed out a questionnaire to students that were in courses that were themed around computers to see if other students were taught and were aware about software vulnerabilities. My questions varied from “what is the definition of a phishing attack” to asking them about what password they felt was the stronger. I gave my questionnaire out to 20 students as I felt this would give me a variety of answers I could work with. As I mentioned before I asked the students what the definition of a phishing attack is and to my surprise only 40% of the students wrote the correct answer. This suggests that a lot of the students are vulnerable to a phishing attack, this being said it puts the college at risk as if one of these student who answered incorrectly were to open a phishing email at college it could disrupt the whole college system. 

When asked about their password and if they use the same password for most social media accounts and accounts in general 50% of the student said they use the same password for most of their accounts which means if a hacker is able to access on account and find out the password they have access to every other account that student has making them extremely vulnerable of hackers gaining access to information about the students, the students would rather keep private. Which in essence can put the students wellbeing at risk, as well as their financial status being affect if hackers get their hands on card details. Additionally, I asked student to give me the definition of an SQL infection and 70% of them were able to give me the correct answer meaning they have bene taught about these types of attacks but not so much about phishing attacks which is arguable the easier attack to understand. A pattern I observed that was certain students knew the more difficult, harder answer but could not answer the simpler questions. For example, when asked about phishing scams 60% could not give me the correct definition where as 70% could give me the correct definition of an SQL injection, which a lot of people would say is the harder attack to understand but these students seem to understand the harder ones and not the basics, and in essence if you do not understand the basics of something there is no point in knowing or understanding the harder definitions/ knowledge.  

Another trend I noticed is that not many of the student are worried about being hacked and don’t take many precautions when it comes to going about their internet life. When I asked the students to “Write 2 precautions you take when downloading music, games, movies to avoid being hacked” only 35% of the students gave me a precaution they take, most of the student wrote something along the lines of “I don’t” or “none”. A few precautions they take are checking the URL to make sure there are no suspicious characters or symbols within it and checking a link before the click it to make sure it does not contain any suspicious characters or symbols. This I was disappointing as it showed only a small percent of them actually realises how serious and easy it can be for hackers to gain access to your system if you’re not careful. To back this up when I asked them if they had ever been hacked 80% of them admitted to being hacked at least once in the past which is just not good at all. In essence I feel my research has opened my eyes and showed me that students are not taught much about software vulnerabilities, how to prevent them and how to going about your internet life while being safe. Most students gave answers that suggests they are vulnerable to being hacked, which means they put their information at risk and the college’s information at risk, when the come to college as use the college systems.

### Reccomendations

There are a lot of things you can do to prevent flaws, issues, bugs and exploits during the development process and I am going to give some tips/recommendations on how to reduce and prevent these vulnerabilities. 

Firstly, when developing a system its best to use an authentication mechanism that cannot be bypassed or changed. If not designed correctly they can be tampered with so make sure an expert sets it up. This mechanism will stop bypasses within your software. While creating your system you should identify the sensitive data that you will be holding within the software and how you should hold it, this will make it easier and safer when it comes to the finish project, as you will know where to put the sensitive data and how to hold it. A small recommendation that can go along way is just to think about the data you have and make sure it is explicitly validated and do not make implicit assumptions about said data. When assumptions are made about data hackers can exploit these situations and get what they want. During development it is important to arm your software with security levels and parts that are going to protect is now and years to come. During development I would recommend installing software that will protect your project from being bypassed or hacked, with a firewall. During development and in the future a good way to help prevent malicious code being injected into your software/system is to whitelist applications this approach will whitelist applications and not allow them to run on your computer or system, instead it only allows a single pre-defined set of applications to run on it. During development of software to avoid the wrong people getting their hands of the software, I would recommend that the software is in a place only accessible by the right people for example a room that only certain people can enter or a drive that only certain people can access. Additionally, you can add passwords to the drives and computer to stop them being accessed. An easy mistake that developers make is having messy code that is not laid out correctly and efficiently. An easy way to fix this is to add indentations and spaces between paragraphs of code this makes it easier to read, go back to and fix. Lastly, we have one of the best ways to prevent bugs and that is just to test the code. Testing code is the best and easiest way to see if the code works and helps to check if what the developers are doing is correct.

#### Conclusions and Reflection
In conclusion I feel the research I have done and carried out has helped me a lot to answer the question “How to reduce the vulnerabilities in a system during software development?”. I have gained lots of information, tips and research to help me identify what things can be done to prevent hackers gaining access and how to decrease these vulnerabilities before anything catastrophic happens to my systems and information. For my research I asked 20 students that were in computer based courses about vulnerabilities and hackers. To my surprise not many of the answers I got made my confident that these students were taking the necessary action to keep them self-safe from attacks as well as them keeping the college safe when they use its computers. I hope from these recommendations they will learn to think about what they are doing first before they give a hacker the operand over them. For my secondary research I wrote about two case studies one being Yahoo and one about Ebay. With Yahoo they were involved in the largest data breach in history with over 3 billion accounts being compromised and information like, full names, email addresses, telephone number and date of births being leaked. Additionally, with the Ebay case study similar to the Yahoo case study, over 145 million accounts were affect and the hackers were able to have access to the information for 229 days which is absurd. These case studies made me realise that no matter how much money or how big you are there is no escaping a hacker, and arguably when you are bigger you attract hacker’s attention a lot more as the information you have is normally worth a lot more. The recommendations I have created should help all developers when it comes to preventing bugs and exploits within their code and system. Finally I feel this research has opened my eyes a lot more to what precautions I should be taking as well and has hopefully open the eyes of lots of new developers and even old developers. Looking back on my questions within my questionnaire if I could go back and change them I think I would edit them to be more specific and making sure every question gets me closer to answering the question ‘How to reduce vulnerabilities in a system during Software development?’.

Lastly, in conclusion, the reserach I undertook helped to get a better idea at to what the student at our college know about hacking, viruses and technology in general. After realising how little these students knew about cyber attacks, it made me think about the people around me whether that is a friend or family, do they know how to prevent these attacks and better themself when it comes to using the internet. In addition to this i have seen a dramatic change in how I use my college computer as well as my home computer when it comes to using the internet as I have realised how easy it can be to give someone access to your pc without you even knowing.
